---
title: Core API Resources
---
{::options toc_levels="1,2" /}

* Will be replaced with the ToC, excluding the "Contents" header
{:toc}

# Core API Resources
{:.no_toc}

All of the resources in this section are prefixed with `/cider-ci/api/v2`. This
prefix is omitted for brevity in the following. 


## General Properties 

### Content Types 

The core API supports the content types `application/json-roa+json` and
`application/json` for `GET` requests to all resources. The former
includes hyperlinks to related resources and to this documentation.

The API evaluates the accept header including the `q` parameter, see [Section
14 of RFC 2616][] . The content type `application/json-roa+json` as a higher
quality of service and is thus preferred. If no matching accept header is
supplied the content-type `application/json-roa+json` will be used.

All data requests containing a body like `PUT`, `PATCH`, and `POST`
support the content type `application/json`.


  [Section 14 of RFC 2616]: http://www.w3.org/Protocols/rfc2616/rfc2616-sec14.html


### Index Resources

Several resources are conceptually indexes, e.g. `/executions/`, which rather
return several references to the same kind of resource, e.g. `/execution/:id`.
All of these indexes are paginated an use the `page` parameter with an integer
value for iteration. 

The content type `application/json-roa+json` includes a `next` link which 
should be used to iterate index resources.

## Root

### GET `/`

The entry-point.

## Execution

### GET `/execution/:id`

Returns the properties of the corresponding _Execution_.

## Execution-Stats

### GET `/execution/:id/stats`

Returns the aggregated count of the number of tasks belonging to an _Execution_
with respect to their state. 


## Executions 

### GET `/executions/` 

Returns a list of links each pointing to an `Execution`. Order is
descending by the `created_at` time-stamp.

#### Query Parameters 

##### branch

Filters *Executions* of commits which are directly referenced by the given
branch with name equal to the given value where the matching is case
insensitive.

Query string example: `?branch=master` 

Note: this filter is case insensitive with respect to _branch-name_.

##### branchdescendants

Similar as above, however it will also include all descendants
of the commit referenced by the given branch name.

Examples: 

1.  Descendants of the branch master: `?branch=master`

2.  A combination of `branch` and `branchdescendants` can make sense:
    `?branchdescendants=next&branch=master`, read: give me the
    executions of the commit where the branch master points to and which
    are descendants of the branch next.

##### repository

Filters *Executions* related to commits within repositories with the
name equal to the value of the parameter.

This filter is also case insensitive. 

Examples: 

1. executions for the _Madek_ repository: `?repository=madek` 
2. for the _Madek_ repository and for the master branch: `?repository=madek&branch=master`
3. including descendants: `?repository=madek&branchdescendants=master`
4. composing even more: `?repository=madek&branchdescendants=next&branch=master`


##### state 

Filters _Executions_ with state equal to the value of the parameter.

Query string example: `?branch-name=master&repository-name=leihs&state=success`


## Task

### GET `/task/:id` 

Returns the properties of the corresponding `Task`.


## Tasks

### GET `/execution/:execution_id/tasks/` 

Returns a list of links each pointing to a `Task` which belongs to
`Execution` with the id `:execution_id`. Order is ascending with respect
to the `name` property.

#### Query Parameters 

##### state 

Filters `Tasks` with state equal to the value of the parameter.

Query string example: `?page=0&state=failed`

## Trial

### GET `/trial/:id` 

Returns the properties of the trial with the id `:id`.

## Trials

### GET `/task/:task_id/trials/` 

Returns a list of links each pointing to a trial which belongs to the
task with the id `:task_id`. Order is descending with respect to the
`updated_at` property.

#### Query Parameters 

##### state 

Filters trials with state equal to the value of the parameter.

Query string example: `?page=0&state=failed`



## Tree-Attachment

### GET `/tree-attachment/:id` 

Returns the properties of a _Tree-Attachment_.

This does not return the data-stream of the attachment itself. A
hyperlink to the latter is included in `application/json-roa+json`
response types, see [Content Types][].


## Tree-Attachments

### GET `/execution/:execution_id/attachments/` 

Returns a list of ids each belonging to a _Tree-Attachment_ which belongs
to the _Execution_ with the id `:execution_id`. Note, the `tree_id` is a
inherent property of every _Execution_. Order is ascending with respect to
the `path` property.


## Trial-Attachment

### GET `/trial-attachment/:id`

Returns the properties of a  _Trial-Attachment_.

This does not return the data-stream of the attachment itself. A
hyperlink to the latter is included in `application/json-roa+json`
response types, see [Content Types][].

## Trial-Attachments

### GET `/trial/:trial_id/trial-attachments/` 

Returns a list of ids. Each belongs to a _Trial-Attachment_ which belongs to the
trial with the id `:trial_id`. Order is ascending with respect to the `path`
property.




  [Content Types]: #content-types



